"All Never Users" 
"Infecund, Menopausal"
"Not Married, Not Sexually Active" 
"Not Married, Sexually Active"
"Married, Wants Child within 2 Years"
"Married, Does Not Want Child within 2 Years"
"All Former Users"
"Under a Year"
"1 Year"
"2 Year"
"3 Year"
"4 Year"
"5+ Years" 
"Track20 Current, Former, and Never Use of Contraception"
"Distribution of Women of Reproductive Age"
"Generally, our assessment of family planning programs focuses on contraceptive prevalence and current contraceptive users: what proportion of the population are using, the methods they are using, their demographic characteristics, etc."
"However, this data doesn’t fully capture the successes and limitations of family planning programs. Exploring the experiences and intentions of women who are not currently using contraception (those who have in the past and those who have never used) can help point to opportunities and barriers for family planning programs."
"Women cycle on and off contraception for a wide range of reasons, meaning that at any given time, some women who have been successfully reached and had their needs met by the program may not currently be using a method. This may be especially true in countries where contraception is largely used for spacing rather than limiting. These former users, when looked at along with current users, help paint a more complete picture of the reach of the program and the availability and acceptability of contraception."
"As family planning programs expand, we expect current users and former users to grow. Each of these three groups has programmatic importance, but the questions we ask differ."
"Track20’s new “Current, Former, Never Tool” is designed to help users understand how women are distributed across these three groups, how that has changed over time, and what each group says about the successes and limitations of the family planning program in a given country."
"To use this tool, start by choosing a country.  Move between tabs, choosing different questions to explore the data.  If you would like to download all the graphics, click the download button above."
"Choose a Country"
"Country" 
'Download Plots and Tables'
"What proportion of women have ever used contraception? Are a larger percentage of women current or former users? 
"Are a larger proportion of women ever users (current + former) or never users?  Are a larger proportion of ever users former or current?  If a large proportion of women are former users, it suggests contraceptive use for spacing births with a sizable share of women not yet at their ideal family size.  It could also suggest a program issue if women are discontinuing because of dissatisfaction.  We will explore these issues in the former tab.  If two or more surveys are available, have you seen more growth in current use or former use?"
"What is the age distribution of women of reproductive age?  Are most never users young women?"
"Are most never user young women?  We expect young women who have never had sex to have never used contraception.  For women over 40, those who are never users or former users are less likely to start using a method as infecundability rises with age."
"Note: Some Demographic and Health Surveys only interview ever married women"
"Never Users"
"Never Users – Women who have never in their lives used a method of contraception (can become current users)"
"Never Users can help us understand potential barriers to contraceptive use and the scale of potential growth. Understanding who makes up this group, whether they may have a current or future need for contraception, and whether they intend to use in the future can help in designing programs to meet their needs – women who have never used contraception likely need different messaging and have different barriers to use than those who have formerly used."
"Choose a Question to Explore the Data"
"What proportion of never users may have a need for contraception right now?"
"What is the distribution of never users who intend to use in the future?"
"What proportion of never users intend to use in the future?"
"Former Users"
"Former Users – Women who previously used a method of contraception, but are not currently using (can become current users)"
"Former Users can help us understand successes and possible issues within the family planning program. These women once chose to use a method but have discontinued – understanding the reasons for their discontinuation and their future intentions to use can help indicate where the program may need to make changes to help retain contraceptive users or make uptake after a planned break as easy as possible."
"Choose a Question to Explore the Data"
"What proportion of former users may have a need for contraception right now?"
"Why did former users stop using family planning?"
"When did former users stop using family planning?"
"What is the distribution of former users who intend to use in the future?"
"What proportion of former users intend to use in the future?"
"Current Users"
"Current Users- Women who are currently using a method of contraception to prevent pregnancy (can become former users)"
"From Current Users we can understand who is using, what methods are available, service quality, and source among other things - helping to improve our understanding of the services being provided and clients whose needs are being met."
"What is the distribution of current users?"
"What methods are most popular?"
"How long have women used their method?"
"Where are they accessing methods?"
"Are they informed about other methods and side effects?"
"Percent of WRA Population"
"Current User" 
"Former User"
"Never Used"
"Age Distribution"    
"Never Users Population Distribution" 
"Never Users Intention to Use in Future"
"Does Not Intend"
"Unsure About Use"
"Use Later"
"Never Users who Intend to Use"
"Former Users Population Distribution"
"Former Users Intention to Use in Future"
"Former Users who Intend to Use"
"Why Did Former Users Discontinue"
"Percent of Former Users"
"When Did Former Users Last Use Family Planning"
"Current Users Population Distribution"
"Current Users Method Mix"
"Method Information Index"
"Current Users Method Source"
"Percent of Current Users"
"When Did Current Users Start Using Current Method"
"Married women who do not want a child in the next two years and unmarried, sexually active women may have a need for contraception to avoid pregnancy.  Women who are not married and not sexually active and those who are married and want a child soon may not need contraception now but may benefit from family planning information.  Infecund or menopausal women who have never used are unlikely to become users in the future."
"For each group, we can look at who needs programming (those who intend to use in the future) versus who needs information about the benefits of family planning (those who are unsure or do not intend to use in the future).  If a large proportion of not married women (who are predominately young women) do not intend to use in the future, expanded outreach to youth maybe needed." 
"Programmatically, it is beneficial to know which population is largest among those who intended to use in the future, especially if that group has a current unmet need."
"Married women who do not want a child in the next two years and unmarried, sexually active women may have a need for contraception to avoid pregnancy.  Women who are not married and not sexually active and those who are married and want a child soon may not need contraception now but may want to become family planning users again in the future.  Infecund or menopausal women who have formerly used are unlikely to become users in the future."
"In a program focused on spacing, we expect many women to stop using a contraceptive method because they want to become pregnant.  Women with decreased risk of pregnancy (infrequent sex, marital dissolution, and menopause) are also likely to stop using a method.  If a large share of women discontinues because they pregnant while using a method, this suggests high rates of method failure.  If a large proportion of former users stop using due to side effects (and do not start a new method), it suggests a limited access to wide arrange of methods and information."
"If most former users stopped using recently, it may suggest they stopped using to become pregnant.  A concentration of former users who stopped using 5+ years ago suggests many former users may assume they have a decreased risk of unplanned pregnancy or want to become pregnant.  One concern with a large proportion of former users who have not used in the last 5 years is that they had a negative experience with family planning programs."
"For each group, we can look at who needs programming (those who intend to use in the future) versus who needs information about the benefits of family planning (those who are unsure or do not intend to use in the future)."
"Programmatically, it is beneficial to know which population is largest among those who intended to use in the future, especially if that group has a current unmet need."
"Are married and unmarried women current users?  If two or more surveys are available, has the distribution changed over time?" 
"Which contraceptive methods are most widely used?  Are they short-term or long-term methods?  If two or more surveys are available, has the distribution changed over time?" 
"In countries with dramatic growth in contraceptive use, we expect more women to be new users of methods.  Also, if there is a lot of method switching, we might expect women have used their current method for a shorter period."
"Are most users receiving their methods from a public or private source?  If two or more surveys are available, has the distribution changed over time?"
"Are users receiving key information when starting a method?  Does this vary by method?"

  